README.md, before:

# ansible-rclone
AKA `ansible_rclone` and formerly `rclone`

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/stefangweichinger/ansible-rclone.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/stefangweichinger/ansible-rclone)

[![GitHub Workflow Status](https://img.shields.io/github/workflow/status/stefangweichinger/ansible-rclone/Molecule?label=GitHub%20Workflow%20Molecule)](https://github.com/stefangweichinger/ansible-rclone/actions)

[![GitHub Open Issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues/stefangweichinger/ansible-rclone.svg)](https://github.com/stefangweichinger/ansible-rclone/issues)
[![GitHub Stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/stefangweichinger/ansible-rclone.svg)](https://github.com/stefangweichinger/ansible-rclone)
[![GitHub Forks](https://img.shields.io/github/forks/stefangweichinger/ansible-rclone.svg)](https://github.com/stefangweichinger/ansible-rclone)

[![Ansible Role](https://img.shields.io/ansible/role/46861.svg)](https://galaxy.ansible.com/stefangweichinger/ansible_rclone)
[![Ansible Role Downloads](https://img.shields.io/ansible/role/d/46861.svg)](https://galaxy.ansible.com/stefangweichinger/ansible_rclone)

## Description

An Ansible role to install [rclone](https://github.com/ncw/rclone)

Please note that this role installs rclone from the upstream repository and not from the OS repositories!

## Usage

1. Clone this repo into your local roles-directory or install via `ansible-galaxy install stefangweichinger.ansible_rclone`
2. Add role to the hosts you want rclone installed to.

## Supported Platforms

(2020-may-25)

* CentOS 7,8
* Debian 8,9,10
* Fedora 30,31,32
* Ubuntu 1604,1804,2004
* Ubuntu derivated distros: Linux Mint, Pop!\_OS

Some older releases also work with this role, but I decided to remove some of them from `galaxy_info`.
PRs welcome, but we can't test on every platform.

## Role Variables

Available variables are listed below, along with default values (see `defaults/main.yml`):

    install_manpages: "true"

This can be used to toggle the installation of manpages.

    rclone_arch: "amd64"

This variable chooses the target architecture (for example 'amd64').

    rclone_version: ""

The version of rclone to install. `rclone_version` is no longer set as a default, but if provided as a variable, can be set to a specific version number, or "stable", or "beta" to install the latest beta version.

    rclone_config_location: "/root/.config/rclone/rclone.conf"

The location to install the rclone config file if you provide `rclone_configs`

    rclone_configs: ""

This variable allows for predefined remote configs to be loaded. `rclone_configs` must be a YAML list with a name variable and a properties variable which is another list of arbitrary key value pairs. See the example below which would configure a Google Drive remote:

```
rclone_configs:
  - name: ExampleGoogleDriveRemote
    properties:
      type: drive
      client_id: 12345
      client_secret: 67890
      token: '{"access_token":"","token_type":"","refresh_token":"","expiry":""}'
```

### rclone_configs detailed example

The `rclone_configs` variable is used to recreate the `rclone.conf` file. This config file stores the rclone remotes that have been defined and are usable. This is an alternative to simply copying a stored `rclone.conf` file directly.

The `rclone_configs` simply takes a list of YAML objects which must have a `name` which will map to the name of the remote, and a `properties` which can be any key, value pairs which will map to the variables stored under that remote. These should be the ones expected by the `rclone.conf` file for the remote type you're configuring.

For example, to recreate a standard encrypted Google Drive mount setup, the `rclone.conf` will look similar to below, assuming you have your encypted files stored in the "media" folder on Google Drive:

```
[google-drive]
type = drive
client_id = <CLIENT_ID>
client_secret = <CLIENT_SECRET>
token = {"access_token":"<ACCESS_TOKEN>","token_type":"Bearer","refresh_token":"<REFRESH_TOKEN>","expiry":"<DATETIME>"}
root_folder_id = <ROOT_FOLDER_ID>

[encrypted-media]
type = crypt
remote = google-drive:media
filename_encryption = standard
password = <PASSWORD>
password2 = <PASSWORD2>
```

To enable ansible-rclone to recreate that config file, you can provide an `rclone_configs` variable as follows.
Note that this should always be encrypted if stored publicly as it gives access to your remotes:

```
rclone_configs:
  - name: google-drive
    properties:
      type: drive
      client_id: <CLIENT_ID>
      client_secret: <CLIENT_SECRET>
      token: '{"access_token":"<ACCESS_TOKEN>","token_type":"Bearer","refresh_token":"<REFRESH_TOKEN>","expiry":"<DATETIME>"}'
      root_folder_id = <ROOT_FOLDER_ID>
  - name: encrypted-media
    properties:
      type: crypt
      remote: google-drive:media
      filename_encryption: standard
      password: <PASSWORD>
      password2: <PASSWORD2>

```

## Dependencies

None.

## Example Playbook

    - hosts: rclone-hosts
      roles:
        - rclone

## Troubleshooting

**Module Name Issue**:
```
[WARNING]: - stefangweichinger.rclone was NOT installed successfully: - sorry, stefangweichinger.rclone was not found on https://galaxy.ansible.com/api/
```

Note that this module has undergone a name change. It was previously known as `stefangweichinger.rclone`, however Galaxy changed it's naming methods. We are working on a change that will put move it back to this name for simplicity. Ansible Galaxy substitutes `-` to `_` and used to strip a prefix or `ansible`. For more information, see the [this issue](https://github.com/stefangweichinger/ansible-rclone/issues/48).

## Tests

New tests using [molecule](https://molecule.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html)

pls feel free to review my first steps into testing the role with molecule
additional distros might be added/tested soon

Check the travis logs at     https://travis-ci.org/github/stefangweichinger/ansible-rclone

Commit message:

CI improvement :: README edit, enable galaxy publish action (#63)
* edit README, add release action to workflow

* fixed format of action call

README.md, after:

# ansible-rclone
AKA `ansible_rclone` and formerly `rclone`

[![GitHub Workflow Status](https://img.shields.io/github/workflow/status/stefangweichinger/ansible-rclone/Molecule?label=GitHub%20Workflow%20Molecule)](https://github.com/stefangweichinger/ansible-rclone/actions)

[![GitHub Open Issues](https://img.shields.io/github/issues/stefangweichinger/ansible-rclone.svg)](https://github.com/stefangweichinger/ansible-rclone/issues)
[![GitHub Stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/stefangweichinger/ansible-rclone.svg)](https://github.com/stefangweichinger/ansible-rclone)
[![GitHub Forks](https://img.shields.io/github/forks/stefangweichinger/ansible-rclone.svg)](https://github.com/stefangweichinger/ansible-rclone)

[![Ansible Role](https://img.shields.io/ansible/role/46861.svg)](https://galaxy.ansible.com/stefangweichinger/ansible_rclone)
[![Ansible Role Downloads](https://img.shields.io/ansible/role/d/46861.svg)](https://galaxy.ansible.com/stefangweichinger/ansible_rclone)

## Description

An Ansible role to install [rclone](https://github.com/ncw/rclone)

Please note that this role installs rclone from the upstream repository and not from the OS repositories!

## Usage

1. Clone this repo into your local roles-directory or install via `ansible-galaxy install stefangweichinger.ansible_rclone`
2. Add role to the hosts you want rclone installed to.

## Supported Platforms

The build tests run on a selected set of distros, currently I decided to use the last two releases of each CentOS, Debian, Fedora, Ubuntu.

* CentOS 7,8
* Debian 8,9,10
* Fedora 30,31,32,33
* Ubuntu 1604,1804,2004
* Ubuntu derivated distros: Linux Mint, Pop!\_OS

Some older releases also work with this role, but I decided to remove some of them from `galaxy_info`.
PRs welcome, but we can't test on every platform.

## Role Variables

Available variables are listed below, along with default values (see `defaults/main.yml`):

    install_manpages: "true"

This can be used to toggle the installation of manpages.

    rclone_arch: "amd64"

This variable chooses the target architecture (for example 'amd64').

    rclone_version: ""

The version of rclone to install. `rclone_version` is no longer set as a default, but if provided as a variable, can be set to a specific version number, or "stable", or "beta" to install the latest beta version.

    rclone_config_location: "/root/.config/rclone/rclone.conf"

The location to install the rclone config file if you provide `rclone_configs`

    rclone_configs: ""

This variable allows for predefined remote configs to be loaded. `rclone_configs` must be a YAML list with a name variable and a properties variable which is another list of arbitrary key value pairs. See the example below which would configure a Google Drive remote:

```
rclone_configs:
  - name: ExampleGoogleDriveRemote
    properties:
      type: drive
      client_id: 12345
      client_secret: 67890
      token: '{"access_token":"","token_type":"","refresh_token":"","expiry":""}'
```

### rclone_configs detailed example

The `rclone_configs` variable is used to recreate the `rclone.conf` file. This config file stores the rclone remotes that have been defined and are usable. This is an alternative to simply copying a stored `rclone.conf` file directly.

The `rclone_configs` simply takes a list of YAML objects which must have a `name` which will map to the name of the remote, and a `properties` which can be any key, value pairs which will map to the variables stored under that remote. These should be the ones expected by the `rclone.conf` file for the remote type you're configuring.

For example, to recreate a standard encrypted Google Drive mount setup, the `rclone.conf` will look similar to below, assuming you have your encypted files stored in the "media" folder on Google Drive:

```
[google-drive]
type = drive
client_id = <CLIENT_ID>
client_secret = <CLIENT_SECRET>
token = {"access_token":"<ACCESS_TOKEN>","token_type":"Bearer","refresh_token":"<REFRESH_TOKEN>","expiry":"<DATETIME>"}
root_folder_id = <ROOT_FOLDER_ID>

[encrypted-media]
type = crypt
remote = google-drive:media
filename_encryption = standard
password = <PASSWORD>
password2 = <PASSWORD2>
```

To enable ansible-rclone to recreate that config file, you can provide an `rclone_configs` variable as follows.
Note that this should always be encrypted if stored publicly as it gives access to your remotes:

```
rclone_configs:
  - name: google-drive
    properties:
      type: drive
      client_id: <CLIENT_ID>
      client_secret: <CLIENT_SECRET>
      token: '{"access_token":"<ACCESS_TOKEN>","token_type":"Bearer","refresh_token":"<REFRESH_TOKEN>","expiry":"<DATETIME>"}'
      root_folder_id = <ROOT_FOLDER_ID>
  - name: encrypted-media
    properties:
      type: crypt
      remote: google-drive:media
      filename_encryption: standard
      password: <PASSWORD>
      password2: <PASSWORD2>

```

## Dependencies

None.

## Example Playbook

    - hosts: rclone-hosts
      roles:
        - rclone

## Troubleshooting

**Module Name Issue**:
```
[WARNING]: - stefangweichinger.rclone was NOT installed successfully: - sorry, stefangweichinger.rclone was not found on https://galaxy.ansible.com/api/
```

Note that this module has undergone a name change. It was previously known as `stefangweichinger.rclone`, however Galaxy changed it's naming methods. We are working on a change that will put move it back to this name for simplicity. Ansible Galaxy substitutes `-` to `_` and used to strip a prefix or `ansible`. For more information, see the [this issue](https://github.com/stefangweichinger/ansible-rclone/issues/48).

## Molecule Testing

The tests of this ansible role use [molecule](https://molecule.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html)

### (disabled) Travis CI

At first I used Travis CI, see the logs at https://travis-ci.org/github/stefangweichinger/ansible-rclone

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/stefangweichinger/ansible-rclone.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/stefangweichinger/ansible-rclone)

### (current) CI with GitHub Actions

In November 2020 I switched over to running the CI pipeline within Github Actions:

https://github.com/stefangweichinger/ansible-rclone/actions

[![GitHub Workflow Status](https://img.shields.io/github/workflow/status/stefangweichinger/ansible-rclone/Molecule?label=GitHub%20Workflow%20Molecule)](https://github.com/stefangweichinger/ansible-rclone/actions)

This, like this whole repo, is a work in progress.
